Are you familiar with Ghost blog platform and listmonk? EditI'm familiar with the Ghost blogging platform, but I don't have detailed knowledge about listmonk. I can share what I know about Ghost and offer to discuss it further if you'd like. Would you like me to elaborate on Ghost, or do you have any specific questions about either platform? CopyRetryAListmonk is an opensource maillist/newsletter manager, it allows you to use Amazon SES for example to send mails. Ghost, on the other side only has integration with Mailchimp, that uses mailjet, what adds a recurring cost. I EditThank you for providing that information about listmonk. It's helpful to understand its functionality as an open-source mailing list and newsletter manager with the ability to use services like Amazon SES for sending emails.
You're correct about Ghost's native integration with Mailchimp. However, it's worth noting that Ghost does have some flexibility when it comes to email services:

Native Mailchimp integration: As you mentioned, this is the built-in option that comes with Ghost, which can indeed add recurring costs.
Custom SMTP: Ghost allows you to use a custom SMTP server for sending emails. This means you could potentially set up your own email sending solution or use a different third-party service.
API and webhooks: Ghost has a robust API and webhook system that allows for custom integrations. While it might require some development work, it's possible to create custom integrations with other email services or tools.

Given your interest in both Ghost and listmonk, it sounds like you might be looking for a more cost-effective or flexible email solution for a Ghost-based blog. Is that correct? If so, I can suggest a few potential approaches or discuss how you might integrate these systems. CopyRetryAThis is in part true, Ghost allows you to use a custom SMTP, but only for transactional emails, for newsletter ghost only allows you to use mailgun EditI appreciate you correcting and clarifying that information. You're absolutely right, and I apologize for my mistake. Let me restate the correct information:

Ghost's newsletter functionality: As you pointed out, Ghost only allows Mailgun for sending newsletters. This is indeed a limitation if you're looking for more flexibility or cost-effective options for newsletter distribution.
Transactional emails: Ghost does allow custom SMTP for transactional emails (like password resets, notifications, etc.), but not for newsletters.

This limitation with Ghost's newsletter functionality can indeed be frustrating for users who want more control over their email infrastructure or are looking to optimize costs.
Given this situation, I can see why you're interested in potentially using listmonk alongside Ghost. Some possible approaches could include:

Using Ghost for your blog content and listmonk for managing your newsletter separately.
Exploring if there's a way to integrate listmonk with Ghost using Ghost's API or webhooks, though this would likely require custom development.
Investigating if there are any community-developed plugins or integrations that might bridge Ghost and listmonk or other email services.

Would you like to discuss any of these options further, or do you have a specific goal in mind for combining Ghost and listmonk? CopyRetryAYes, I would like to manage my blog content with Ghost and my newsletter with ListMonk. When a new user registers to the newsletter, I can send a webhook from ghost where I want. I could use this information to then register this user in listmonk. EditThat's a great approach! You're on the right track with using Ghost's webhook functionality to connect it with listmonk. Here's a high-level overview of how you could set this up:

Ghost Configuration:

Set up a webhook in Ghost that triggers when a new newsletter subscriber is added.
Configure the webhook to send relevant user data (like email address) to an endpoint you control.


Intermediate API/Service:

Create a simple API or serverless function (using AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, or similar) that receives the webhook from Ghost.
This service would process the incoming data from Ghost and then make an API call to listmonk to add the new subscriber.


Listmonk Configuration:

Set up listmonk and configure it to use your preferred email sending service (like Amazon SES).
Ensure listmonk's API is accessible to your intermediate service.


Integration Flow:

User subscribes on your Ghost blog
Ghost sends webhook to your intermediate service
Your service processes the data and calls listmonk's API
Listmonk adds the new subscriber to your mailing list



This setup allows you to maintain Ghost for content management while leveraging listmonk's more flexible and potentially cost-effective email management capabilities.
Would you like me to elaborate on any part of this process, such as setting up the webhook in Ghost or creating the intermediate service? CopyRetryAI'm thinking if handling it myself... my use case is that I've a google form collecting tens of thousands o applications and I need to reply to those people in masse (a few thousands per day), can you do some back of the envelope calculation of what the cost would be using lambda? EditCertainly, I can help you with a rough cost estimation for using AWS Lambda to handle this task. Let's break it down step by step:
AWS Lambda Cost EstimationClick to open document
Based on this calculation, using AWS Lambda for processing your email responses would be very cost-effective. The workload you described (a few thousand emails per day, totaling tens of thousands per month) falls well within AWS Lambda's free tier.
Key points:

Cost: The processing itself would likely be free, assuming you're not using the Lambda free tier for other purposes.
Scalability: Lambda can easily handle this workload and scale up if needed.
Additional costs: Remember that this calculation doesn't include the cost of actually sending the emails. You'd need to factor in the costs of a service like Amazon SES (Simple Email Service) for sending the emails.
SES Costs: As a rough estimate, Amazon SES charges $0.10 per 1,000 emails for the first 62,000 emails each month, and $0.10 per 10,000 emails thereafter. So for 300,000 emails per month, the SES cost would be approximately $9.80.

Would you like me to elaborate on any part of this calculation or discuss other aspects of implementing this solution? CopyRetryAThe other option would be to deploy a connector service, I could probably write this in go and host it alongside my listmonk and ghost EditThat's an excellent alternative approach. Developing a custom connector service in Go and hosting it alongside your Ghost and listmonk instances has several advantages:

Cost-effective: You'd avoid additional cloud service costs for functions like AWS Lambda.
Control: Full control over the integration logic and deployment.
Performance: Go is known for its efficiency and low resource usage, making it ideal for this kind of service.
Simplicity: Keeping everything on the same infrastructure can simplify management and troubleshooting.

Here's a high-level outline of how you might structure this:

Go Connector Service:

Create a small HTTP server in Go that listens for webhooks from Ghost.
Process the incoming data and use listmonk's API to add new subscribers.
Optionally, add logging and error handling for monitoring.


Deployment:

Deploy this Go service on the same server or container environment where you're running Ghost and listmonk.
Ensure proper network configuration so Ghost can reach your connector, and your connector can reach listmonk.


Configuration:

Set up Ghost to send webhooks to your Go connector service when new subscribers sign up.
Configure the connector with the necessary API details for listmonk.



This approach would be particularly beneficial if you're already comfortable with Go and have the infrastructure in place to host additional services. It provides a lightweight, efficient solution that's fully under your control.
Would you like me to sketch out a basic structure for this Go connector service? Or do you have any specific questions about implementing this approach? CopyRetrylistmonk_apiyamlAExample webhook sent when I registered a user:Copy{
  "member": {
    "current": {
      "id": "66b68e4d46c2c0000128b809",
      "uuid": "c3570109-5572-4ae5-91be-f4bfe2f02653",
      "email": "connect@radianceflow.com",
      "name": null,
      "note": null,
      "geolocation": "{\"area_code\":\"0\",\"country_code\":\"ES\",\"country_code3\":\"ESP\",\"continent_code\":\"EU\",\"asn\":13335,\"region\":\"Madrid\",\"latitude\":\"40.4163\",\"longitude\":\"-3.6934\",\"ip\":\"162.158.122.19\",\"organization_name\":\"CLOUDFLARENET\",\"organization\":\"AS13335 CLOUDFLARENET\",\"timezone\":\"Europe/Madrid\",\"city\":\"Madrid\",\"accuracy\":20,\"country\":\"Spain\"}",
      "subscribed": true,
      "created_at": "2024-08-09T21:46:53.000Z",
      "updated_at": "2024-08-09T21:46:53.000Z",
      "labels": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "avatar_image": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e7e64e923ef0d0a0967445b2b73c7144?s=250&r=g&d=blank",
      "comped": false,
      "email_count": 0,
      "email_opened_count": 0,
      "email_open_rate": null,
      "status": "free",
      "last_seen_at": null,
      "tiers": [],
      "newsletters": [
        {
          "id": "66b64b106243d80001ac9843",
          "name": "troneras",
          "description": null,
          "status": "active"
        }
      ]
    },
    "previous": {}
  }
}We will need a service that can be deployed with docker compose, it should handle the webhooks from ghost, so it should have a custom server listening for them for example on  service:8808/webhookIt should also have the domain where listmonk is in order to call it's API. Management will be done from a web interface. So we need to choose carefully the go framework. For authentication on the webui we can use basic auth or similar and configure this via env variables. The functionality of the UI will be as follows:Similar to Zapier, the user will be able to create multiple Zaps, lets call it something else to avoid branding conflicts, we could call it Sons, from Sonnet ;) In the Zap, sorry, I mean in the Son, he will do the following:
1. Give it a name
2. Select the trigger, (Event)
It will be one of the following:
* Member Created (Triggers when a new member is added)
* Member Deleted (Triggerst when a member is deleted)
* Member Updated (Triggers when a member is updated)
* Page Published (Triggers when a page is published)
* Post Published (Triggers when a post is published)
* Post Scheduled (Triggers when a post is scheduled)
1. Select if it should be inmediate or with a delay. Adding a delay allows users to create email sequences, that can be sent out at different intervals: a welcome email right away, a survey request five days later, and an exclusive offer one month after that.
2. Select the action. (can be multiple) 
   1. sending a transactional email, using a template from listmonk (we will need to retrieve the templates from the api so the user can see the name from a dropdown)
   2.  Creating/deleting a subscriber. Adding subscriber to a list
   3. Creating a campaign (will dig into this later, but probably we will need to select a template, a list to send it to, a date to send it, and we can probably pass some data to replace in the listmonk template placeholders)
3. Can you create the above application step by step, it doesn't need to be in one go.Certainly! I'll guide you through creating this application step by step. Let's start with the basic structure and gradually build up the functionality.
Step 1: Project Setup
Let's begin by setting up the project structure and choosing a Go web framework. For this application, we'll use the Gin framework, which is lightweight, fast, and has good support for API development.
Project SetupClick to open code
Now, let's create a basic main.go file to set up our Gin server:
main.goClick to open code
This sets up a basic Gin server with a webhook endpoint. We'll expand on this as we add more functionality.
Step 2: Docker Setup
Let's create a Dockerfile and a docker-compose.yml file for our application:
DockerfileClick to open code
Now, let's create a docker-compose.yml file:
docker-compose.ymlClick to open code
This docker-compose file sets up our application, Listmonk, and a PostgreSQL database for Listmonk.
Step 3: Basic Authentication
Let's implement basic authentication for our web UI. We'll create a middleware for this:
middleware/auth.goClick to open code
Now, let's update our main.go to use this middleware:
main.goClick to open code
This sets up a basic structure for our application with authentication for the web UI. In the next steps, we'll implement the core functionality for handling webhooks, managing "Sons" (our Zap-like automations), and interacting with the Listmonk API.
Let me know if you want to proceed with the next steps or if you need any clarification on what we've done so far. CopyRetryAready EditGreat! Let's move on to implementing the core functionality of our application.
Step 4: Implement Son (Automation) Model
First, we'll create a model for our Son (automation) structure. This will define how we store and manage our automations.
models/son.goClick to open code
Step 5: Implement Son Storage
Now, let's create a simple storage mechanism for our Sons. For simplicity, we'll use in-memory storage, but in a production environment, you'd want to use a database.
services/son_storage.goClick to open code
Step 6: Implement Son Handlers
Now, let's create handlers for CRUD operations on Sons.
handlers/son_handlers.goClick to open code
Step 7: Update main.go to include Son routes
Let's update our main.go file to include the new Son routes:
main.goClick to open code
These steps set up the basic structure for managing our Sons (automations). In the next steps, we'll implement the webhook handling logic and the Listmonk API integration to actually perform the actions defined in the Sons.
Would you like to proceed with implementing the webhook handling and Listmonk integration, or do you have any questions about what we've done so far? CopyRetryAcontinue EditCertainly! Let's move on to implementing the webhook handling and Listmonk integration.
Step 8: Implement Webhook Handling
First, we'll create a handler for processing the webhooks from Ghost. We'll need to parse the incoming webhook data and trigger the appropriate Sons based on the event type.
handlers/webhook_handler.goClick to open code
Step 9: Implement Listmonk API Client
Now, let's create a simple Listmonk API client to interact with Listmonk:
services/listmonk_client.goClick to open code
Step 10: Implement Son Executor
Now, let's create a service to execute the actions defined in a Son:
services/son_executor.goClick to open code
Step 11: Update main.go to include the new components
Let's update our main.go file to include the new webhook handler and Listmonk client:
main.goClick to open code
With these changes, we've implemented the core functionality of our Ghost-Listmonk connector. The application can now:

Receive webhooks from Ghost
Process the webhooks and determine the trigger type
Find relevant Sons based on the trigger type
Execute the actions defined in the Sons, including sending transactional emails, managing subscribers, and creating campaigns in Listmonk

The next steps would be to:

Implement error handling and logging throughout the application
Add more comprehensive tests
Implement a user interface for managing Sons
Add more sophisticated scheduling and retry mechanisms for action execution
Implement caching and performance optimizations

Would you like to focus on any of these areas next, or do you have any questions about the implementation so far? CopyRetryALet's continue with the next step EditCertainly! Let's focus on implementing error handling and logging throughout the application. This will make our application more robust and easier to debug.
Step 12: Implement Logging
First, let's create a custom logger that we can use throughout our application:
utils/logger.goClick to open code
Now, let's update our services and handlers to use this logger and implement better error handling.
Step 13: Update Son Storage with Logging and Error Handling
services/son_storage.goClick to open code
Step 14: Update Listmonk Client with Logging and Error Handling
services/listmonk_client.goClick to open code
Step 15: Update Son Executor with Logging and Error Handling
services/son_executor.goClick to open code
Step 16: Update Webhook Handler with Logging and Error Handling
handlers/webhook_handler.goClick to open code CopyRetryClaude’s response was limited as it hit the maximum length allowed at this time.Acontinue with step 16 EditCertainly! Let's continue with step 16, updating the Webhook Handler with logging and error handling.
handlers/webhook_handler.goClick to open code
Now, let's add a utility function to pretty print JSON for logging purposes:
utils/pretty_print.goClick to open code
Step 17: Update Son Handler with Logging and Error Handling
handlers/son_handlers.goClick to open code
Step 18: Update main.go to use the new logger
Finally, let's update our main.go file to use the new logger:
main.goClick to open code
With these changes, we've significantly improved our application's error handling and logging. This will make it easier to debug issues and monitor the application's behavior in production.
The next steps could include:

Implementing comprehensive tests for all components
Creating a user interface for managing Sons
Adding more sophisticated scheduling and retry mechanisms for action execution
Implementing caching and performance optimizations

Would you like to focus on any of these areas next, or do you have any other specific improvements in mind? CopyRetryAThere's an error on webhook_handler in this linereturn "", utils.ErrorLogger.NewError("UnknownTriggerType", "Unable to determine trigger type from webhook data") EditI apologize for the error. You're right, and thank you for catching that. The ErrorLogger doesn't have a NewError method. Let's correct this by creating a custom error type and using it in the webhook_handler.go file.
First, let's create a new file for custom errors:
utils/errors.goClick to open code
Now, let's update the webhook_handler.go file to use this new custom error:
handlers/webhook_handler.goClick to open code
This correction ensures that we're creating and returning a proper custom error when we can't determine the trigger type. The utils.NewError function creates a new CustomError with the given code and message.
When using this error in other parts of the code, you can type assert it to access the Code and Message fields if needed:
goCopyif err, ok := err.(*utils.CustomError); ok {
    utils.ErrorLogger.Errorf("Custom error occurred: %s - %s", err.Code, err.Message)
} else {
    utils.ErrorLogger.Errorf("An error occurred: %v", err)
}
This approach provides more structured error handling and allows you to include additional context (the error code) when logging or responding to errors.